Summary

 Position Summary 

Job Role: Data Scientist Consultant

New Business Innovation anticipates how technology will shape the future and begins building future capabilities and practices today. NBI drives the Ideation, Incubation and scale of hybrid businesses and tech enabled offerings at prioritized offering portfolio and industry interactions.

It drives cultural and capability transformation from solely services – based businesses to hybrid businesses. While others bet on the future, NBI builds it with you. NBI partners with the network such as converge, Small factory, True Serve, Cortex AI to build hybrid businesses, enterprise platforms and incubate emerging practices to future proof business and help clients get there, first.

NBI encompasses many teams—dreamers, designers, builders—and partners with the business to bring a unique POV to deliver services and products for clients.

Work you’ll do

Key job responsibilities include but are not limited to…

The Commercial Insights Senior Data Scientist will work closely with the Commercial Insights India Lead to deliver innovative and transformative data science solutions. The Data Scientist will be consistently challenged— leveraging both existing strengths and developing new skills. Soutions will range from natural language processing to time series algorithms to more straightforward regression/classification modeling .

The Data Scientist will be responsible for understanding the business requirements and making sure the technical environment and solution fulfill those business requirements in the most efficient way. In order to do this, he/she will work with  and mentor fellow Commercial Insights Data Scientists, designers, IT professionals, software developers, and his/her own network. Due to the nature of the sales process, work take place in a constantly evolving environment, so agility and flexibility will be critical.

Specific responsibilities include:

 Develop a deep understanding of the Consulting sales process 
 Interrogate the data stored in the MS Azure data science lab and other secure locations 
 Collect and document business requirements 
 Develop industry-leading designs 
 Develop the solution—either programming directly, or serving as an advisor to more junior programmers 
 Test the solution 
 Coordinate industrialization of the solution so that it can be used throughout Deloitte Consulting US 
 Participate in a network of data scientists across Deloitte departments to ensure a culture of inclusivity and innovation 
 Commit to continuous improvement and learning—both personally and in support of team members 
 Provide honest and open transparency into work successes and challenges 

The Team

 Partner responsible for informing and accelerating your hybrid business with market-led, offering perspective to incubate differentiated client opportunities from possibility to scaled profitability. 
 Steward of Deloitte’s investment in Hybrid Businesses that drive new and sustained value for Deloitte stakeholders. 

Qualifications And Experience

Required:

 Strong verbal and written English communication skills 
 Deep curiosity about the Consulting sales process 
 Proactive, self-motivated and demonstrated ability to work independently with minimal guidance 
 Strong interpersonal skills 
 Knowledge of current data science techniques and passion for staying current 
 Familiarity with MS Azure and Data Bricks 
 Familiarity with Tableau 
 Data munging skills using R and Python 
 Strong data science skills 
 Deep insights into statistical modeling and simulation tools Python 
 Good understanding and implementation of complex data science algorithms 
 Experience with Big Data execution using PySpark 
 Strong knowledge of statistics 
 Experience with Machine Learning and deployment and maintenance of models 

Our purpose

Deloitte’s purpose is to make an impact that matters for our people, clients, and communities. At Deloitte, purpose is synonymous with how we work every day. It defines who we are. Our purpose comes through in our work with clients that enables impact and value in their organizations, as well as through our own investments, commitments, and actions across areas that help drive positive outcomes for our communities.

Our people and culture

Our inclusive culture empowers our people to be who they are, contribute their unique perspectives, and make a difference individually and collectively. It enables us to leverage different ideas and perspectives, and bring more creativity and innovation to help solve our clients' most complex challenges. This makes Deloitte one of the most rewarding places to work.

Professional development

At Deloitte, professionals have the opportunity to work with some of the best and discover what works best for them. Here, we prioritize professional growth, offering diverse learning and networking opportunities to help accelerate careers and enhance leadership skills. Our state-of-the-art DU: The Leadership Center in India, located in Hyderabad, represents a tangible symbol of our commitment to the holistic growth and development of our people. Explore DU: The Leadership Center in India .

Benefits To Help You Thrive

At Deloitte, we know that great people make a great organization. Our comprehensive rewards program helps us deliver a distinctly Deloitte experience that helps that empowers our professionals to thrive mentally, physically, and financially—and live their purpose. To support our professionals and their loved ones, we offer a broad range of benefits. Eligibility requirements may be based on role, tenure, type of employment and/ or other criteria. Learn more about what working at Deloitte can mean for you.

Recruiting tips

From developing a stand out resume to putting your best foot forward in the interview, we want you to feel prepared and confident as you explore opportunities at Deloitte. Check out recruiting tips from Deloitte recruiters.
